[Music]
the hardest part of becoming independent
is leaving home the emperor penguin
chicks
are about to take the biggest step in
their young lives
left alone by their once doting parents
they must leave their icy birthplace
and make their way to the sea
every test they face hones skills
they'll need later in life
but one challenge stops them in their
tracks
a giant petrol
they try to flee but running isn't an
emperor's strong point
a slip is all the petrol needs
the chick is grabbed by his neck
feathers
[Music]
but the down just falls away
they form a defensive circle and prepare
to stand their ground
despite their chick-like appearance they
are close to a meter tall
quite a size even for a giant petrol
the chick towers to full height
protecting those behind
[Music]
his defiance buys time
it's a standoff
then as if from nowhere and a deli
the feistiest penguin in the world
[Music]
he fearlessly puts himself between the
chicks and the petrol
even petrols don't mess with the delis
the plucky rescuer accompanies the
chicks to the sea
[Music]
emperor cam is there to see them on
their way
but entering the water is a daunting
prospect
having an adult around must be
reassuring even if it is a spy
the adelie seems to be waiting for
something too
another penguin cam is also ready to see
them go
instead other penguins start to arrive
[Music]
their rescuer was just the front runner
for some it's time to retreat
but now it's back to square one
there's no alternative but to run the
gauntlet
once again
[Music]
the seal seems to be toying with this
penguin
but safety is in sight
the ice floe is near the open ocean
but this penguin is exhausted
[Music]
ah
[Applause]
perhaps it's not worth it after all
[Music]
a european hamster
wild hamsters are found in grasslands
throughout
central europe here in the city
they're doing extremely well
[Music]
this male is on a mission to find food
the coast looks clear
[Music]
but best not take any chances
the trick is to get in and out before
your court
and now dessert
candle wax it's full of oil and
high in calories
[Music]
a hamster's cheeks can hold a quarter
of its body weight
just one more mouthful
[Music]
oh dear
big cheeks and narrow bottlenecks
oh very embarrassing
mission accomplished
what bird has the most elaborate
the most complex most beautiful song in
the world
well i guess there are lots of
contenders but this bird must be one of
them
the superb live bird of southern
australia
he clears a space in the forest to
service his concert platform
to persuade females to come close and
admire his plumes
he sings the most complex song he can
manage and he does
that by copying the songs of all the
other birds he hears around him
such as the kookaburra
it's a very convincing impersonation
[Music]
[Laughter]
even the original is full
he can imitate the calls of at least 20
different species
he also in his attempt to outsing his
rivals
incorporates other sounds that he hears
in the forest
that was a camera shutter
and again
and now a camera with a motor drive
and now the sounds of foresters and
their chainsaws
working nearby
hermit crabs use abandoned seashells as
mobile homes
[Music]
as a crab grows its shell becomes an
ever tighter fit
so eventually a crab needs to move in to
a bigger one
[Music]
suitable empty shells are few and far
between
and this one is far too spacious for
this crab
but instead of continuing its search
this small crab settles down to weight
[Music]
other crabs also looking to upgrade to a
bigger home
soon gather whenever a shell washes
ashore
[Music]
unfortunately the new shell is too big
for them
too
[Music]
despite that the gathering crabs begin
to measure each other up
and then they do something really rather
extraordinary
they arrange themselves into an orderly
queue
the biggest at the front smallest at the
back
they're lining up with one aim to
exchange
properties
but none of the crabs can make a move
because the chain is not yet
complete they're all
waiting for the right-sized crab to come
along
and this is it
[Music]
the latest arrival pushes to the head of
the queue
[Music]
at first the chain falls apart
as it reforms the small crab finally
makes its move
and takes its place at the end of the
[Music]
line
after a close inspection the big crab
moves in
[Music]
this triggers a chain reaction
each crab hurriedly moves into the shell
vacated by the crab ahead of it in the
line
just as the small crab attempts to move
into its new home
a fresh arrival muscles in
[Music]
to be left without a shell is a death
sentence
a naked crab will quickly cook under the
intense tropical sun
[Music]
but after all the swapping there is
still
one shell left
sadly it's no bigger than this small
crabs original shell
[Music]
and worse it's got a hole in it
but even a bad shell is better than
being homeless
[Music]
mantids will eat anything that moves
including other mantids
time to leave
this tiny insect is now open to attack
from predators lurking in the
undergrowth
[Music]
whether an individual mantis survives or
not
is partly a matter of chance
whether it's spotted by a predator
[Music]
whether it turns right or left
so far its luck has held
but this hungry jumping spider is still
in pursuit
a mantis is born with exceptional
eyesight
but the spiders is even better
[Music]
although this young mantis can't yet fly
its long four legs
evolve to catch prey give it reach
[Music]
there seems to be no escape
but this mantis has a surprising line in
self-defense
kung fu praying mantis style
of course it's all bluff trying to look
bigger and confuse its enemy
[Music]
but it's got a way with it
just staying alive for its first few
hours
is a significant accomplishment for a
new enhanced insect
but there's still a long way to go with
a bit of luck
in two months time it will be as big and
beautiful
as this orchid mounted
[Music]
or maybe not
after all mantids are cannibals
as small birds arrive competition for
the best
nesting sites
[Music]
it's thirsty work
in the sudden commotion no vulnerable
[Music]
african-americans
they are permanent residents here but at
this time of the year
they don't just eat fish
the safest place to be is inside the
border
but an eagle flyby sends shock waves of
panic through the colony
[Music]
against the riverbank
with the colony in disarray
the predators have the advantage
[Music]
[Applause]
um
[Music]
a snake's eyes aren't very good
but they can detect movement
so if the hatchling keeps its nerve it
may just avoid detection
[Music]
a near miraculous escape
as they mature young males begin to
explore the boundaries
of the pride's territory
red has ventured out alone
[Music]
and london straight into the middle of
the hyena clan
[Music]
oh
he's trapped by over 20 of them
the pack tries to wear him down
this number of hyenas could kill him
[Music]
it's impossible to fight them all at
once
he can't keep them at bay for much
longer
he's towering fast
this ally tattoo has heard the commotion
[Music]
now the odds have changed
even for 20 hyenas a pair of male lions
is too much to take on
[Music]
red is lucky